---
layout: post
title: "I wrote a letter to you in disguise"
subtitle: "an incomplete project, and perhaps, better as incomplete."
date: 2026-03-20
tags: writings
form: essay
---

When I turned 19, someone I was really close to from 6th grade, but with whom I eventually stopped talking, sent me an email in the form of a letter written for me when I turned 18. He had given me a letter on another one of my birthdays, too, but, from what I heard, it was oddly similar to one he wrote for somebody else, so I vowed then never to write a letter to anyone and despised them. So, I didn’t open the email until one day last year, when I was 23. That email was a bittersweet ride down memory lane, but it didn’t make me feel seen at all. It made me realise that he saw me very differently from who I am. So I decided to take on a project, with letters as a medium, as an attempt to make people feel seen.


What started as writing letters for a project became a means for me to process and express my feelings and practice more vulnerability, as I’ve always found it difficult to communicate those through spoken words, and these letters became that bridge. So I wrote these for people around me, for some estranged relationships where I left quietly, and some more abstractly about experiences that I’ve had with people. I wrote around 59 letters over four months, all in disguise, before I stopped, as they started becoming my primary form of expressive communication, and that very reason started hindering my relationships. Now, I’m still learning to communicate verbally in a vulnerable and articulate way, but this was a step towards that and perhaps getting over the childish fear of letters in general. This article is a space for me, and perhaps for those I’ve written to, for accessing those letters, time and time again. A trigger warning, as some of the letters mention elements of sexual assault and violence.

---

<div class="trigger-warning">trigger warning: some letters mention elements of sexual assault and violence.</div>

<div class="letter-section">
<span class="letter-to">aliyah</span>
<div class="letter-block">
Dear Aliyah,
Happy birthday! I wonder how you are doing? I hope you are doing well, though. We don’t talk anymore, but you cross my mind sometimes. My roommate and I were talking about dreams, and when I was with my ex, I would get this incessant dream of possible conversations we’d have if I bumped into you. Hey, how are you?
And you know what’s funny is that when I broke up with my ex, I thought of you because I had a whole meltdown after our breakup, but after this one, I was fine. Funny how life works, I guess.
Last weekend, I was thinking a lot about whether I had ever been in love before. You’re probably the only other person that I have been in love with, I guess.
I like telling stories, you probably already know this, so I was telling Sindhu about what our relationship was like, because I never really talk about how things are going while they are going, and I guess I didn’t talk about you much even after. And when I started telling the story, I realised I couldn’t remember much of it, it was so long ago. I usually remember tiny details, but I couldn’t remember our conversations or what you liked or did, which is weird because I usually remember the little things. Maybe it was my migraine medicines, because they were really strong. I just remembered that you read a lot, you don’t seem like a reader upfront, at least most people who know you can’t imagine that you read. You also had a really good taste in movies. We watched so many things together, it was so comforting. And you made me laugh.
We barely met, though. Our relationship was primarily online. I mean, we knew each other for years before, but that was very different. The COVID lockdown made it seem really hard to meet. That period of time seems like such a blur, and the initial bit of 2020 felt like everything was meaningless, but our late-night calls made it feel really hopeful. Even though our relationship wasn’t anything extraordinary, after the plethora of horrible people I had been with, you made me realise that relationships can be easy, and that loving someone can be easy.
After our breakup, I hurt you, and I’m really sorry. But, I guess you understood. I didn’t like the person that I was after our breakup. I didn’t really even like the person I was before our breakup, but I’ve changed a whole lot since then. I’m liking myself a lot more now. I wonder whether you have changed, too.
I still wonder what I’d say to you if we met, and it’ll probably be hey, how are you?Love,
Shloka
</div>
</div>

<div class="letter-section">
<span class="letter-to">petunia</span>
<div class="letter-block">
Dear Petunia,
How are you? I’m really excited that you’re visiting me soon. I’m so sorry for what happened the last time we hung out. I felt so bad because I thought it would be such a fun time, and that we were all meeting after so long. I really wish we could have spent more time. It was unfortunate.
We became so close around 10th grade, and I still remember so many of our conversations. We used to be such music and history nerds. I remember one day we just called for fun, analysed an Arabic song, and tried to identify the instruments used. You were always good at listening and identifying which note was being played. I couldn’t even tell whether the melody went up or down the scale. You were always the more sensitive of the two of us, and by that I mean you could always notice small changes in everything, even people. But, there’s one aspect that both you and I were sensitive in a similar manner in school, and I guess that would be our other weird alterous friendships with Rohan and Siya, so we’d understand each other when either of us was sad. You could always tell when I was sad because of Rohan, and I could also always tell when you were sad about Siya. And it was comforting that without explaining, you’d get it because you were experiencing something similar.
After school, it got awkward, but this one is on me. I was figuring out a lot and processing a lot about school. I started holding a grudge against you for choosing to be friends with Lila in school, even though you stopped being friends after that. The truth is, that was confusing for you, too. We were all kids, and it took me longer than I thought to forgive you for that, and I’m sorry for that, truly. I guess it still gets a little awkward, though, and what I really miss is how we all used to talk, and how close we were. I feel like nowadays, when we talk, I always hear stories you tell about other people in your life. I wish you would tell more stories about yourself and your life, because the things I remember about you and the stories I have of you are from so long ago, but I know you’ve changed a lot since then, all of us have, and I want to learn more about you as this changed person. I guess the one thing that I know that has changed for you is that you never used to like anything cold, like ice cream, but now you like frozen yogurt. I want to know more small details about you, because you mean so much to me.
This time when we hang out, talk more about yourself rather than other people in your life, because I want to know more about you.
Love,
Shloka
</div>
</div>

<div class="letter-section">
<span class="letter-to">lia</span>
<div class="letter-block">
Dear Lia,
You’re one of the most emotionally intelligent people that I’ve met. A quality I don’t just say casually. On many days when Leah or I get anxious at home, you know how to talk us out of it. You calmly show us the better alternative, rather than focus on the worst possible thing. I was writing today, and you told me what I was writing was actually a beautiful concept, even though I’d convinced myself otherwise. I wasn’t going to finish what I was writing, because I thought it wasn’t good enough, but I’ll do it for you, because you believed. You were asking me questions today about how I coped during times when I’ve felt really sad, the depths that have been hard to get out of. I explained to you how those times broke me, and without me even going into the depths of it, you cried because you understood what I felt like without me having to explain myself. You’re someone who can feel really deeply. It’s sad that the people who often feel really deeply suffer the most. While they can be some of the most sensitive, caring, and even perceptive people, they can also really feel the depths of despair, something you can understand, much more than I can. You asked me today how I got out of feeling that sadness. I tried to explain to you that it was because, even on days when I feel really alone, I remind myself of the people who care about me, as you care about me. Even when I’m tired of fighting, I remind myself to be hopeful. I told you, I haven’t felt that kind of constant sadness in a bit. I used to for a while. You were explaining how it stays with you, and that made me realise how it comes back twice in 6 months or so, but not as intensely as before, and now I can get out of it. So thank you for asking the difficult questions people avoid, like you said, talking about it makes you realise that the feeling is so human. But all I wanted to tell you is that you’re not too much for feeling how you feel, you’re not too much, and you will never be, and when someone loves you, they’ll choose you repeatedly, like I would, as Shyla would. You can, in ways, understand my soul, and I can too, I think, and it’s easy to desire the least, but when you want the slightest out of people, or are just willing to settle for the bare minimum, it’s easy to find yourself in traps, I’ve done that, found myself in traps just because I was okay settling. It’s okay to have your wants loud and clear, and you’re not too much or too emotional for it. I don’t know what you’ve been through or how things were, but all I know is that you’re such a soft person who loves people tenderly and sensitively. I hope you find someone who makes you feel that way, too, the way you watch over all of us in the house.
Love,
Shloka
</div>
<div class="letter-block">
Dear Lia,
Thank you for making me eggs this morning. I feel like it’s been so long since I’ve seen you, but I guess it’s because you were in Princeton for the wedding. I know we don’t talk often because I come back home late, and by the time I’m back, you’re mostly asleep. There are some mornings, though, when we eat breakfast together, and I update you on what’s going on with me, and you do the same, and it’s this really cute routine we have. I wish we could spend more time so I could get to know you better. You told me the day before what nasheed was, how it’s devotional songs, and also about love, and I’ve been thinking about that a lot since yesterday, because I like the concept of how love can also be so intertwined with devotion. I don’t know Urdu, and I can barely speak Hindi, but if you invite me to your Nikkah, I will try to learn Urdu before that so I can say something at your Nikkah. I don’t think I could write something like a nasheed, but I can write something about love, and I’ll try to speak it in Urdu for you. I think about the first day we all met and we ate food at the dog park, I take a long time to get comfortable with people, and I’m a little scared of dogs on the first hand, even though they are cute, but yet in that environment, I got really comfortable with you. We should all have dinner sometime.
Love,
Shloka
</div>
</div>
